# Master_thesis
The main variables of interest in this study are the AQI of PM2.5 and O3 and the number of COVID-19 cases and lockdown measures. The AQI will be measured in micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m3), and the number of COVID-19 cases and lockdown measures will be measured in counts. Other variables, such as weather conditions, will also be considered in the analysis.
1.	Introduction

Air pollution is a significant public health concern, with particulate matter (PM2.5) and ozone (O3) being two of the most common pollutants found in the air. These pollutants have been linked to a range of health problems, including respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. The COVID-19 pandemic led to widespread lockdowns around the world in an effort to slow the spread of the virus. As a result, there was a significant decrease in the number of vehicles on the road, industrial activity, and other sources of pollution. This thesis aims to examine the relationship between COVID-19 lockdowns and the air quality index (AQI) of PM2.5 and O3 in Oulu and Helsinki. The study will investigate if the lockdowns were effective in reducing the levels of PM2.5 and O3 in these cities, and if the improvements in air quality were sustained after the lockdowns were lifted. By analyzing the AQI of PM2.5 and O3 before and during the lockdown period, and comparing the findings with the same period the previous year, this study will contribute to the understanding of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on air quality and the effectiveness of measures to reduce air pollution.
